# reservoir_simulation_with_matlab
 A 2D single-phase oil reservoir performance prediction script as a pedagogical tool
 
This project scripted the reservoir simulation workflow in the MATLAB language, for teaching and learning purposes. The script is packaged as a MATLAB function named TTOWGSIM. Function TTOWGSIM(DataDeck) returns the simulated performance parameters of a 2-D single-phaseoil reservoir whose rock/fluid properties and well parameters are supplied in the input data matrix DataDeck. The elements of DataDeck are imported from the accompanying Microsoft Excel spreadsheet file (2-D Reservoir Simulator DataDeck Template.xlsx) which must be in the same directory with the function file. The output of the funcion contains performance parameters such as average reservoir pressure, average PVT properties, well production rate and cummulative production, at the end of simulation. However values of this performance parameters at each simulation time node are exported into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet created by the function and located in the same directory as the function file. The name of the output spreadsheet is as defined (by the user) in the input spreadsheet and imported into string array OutputFileName.
     
In addition to Function TTOWGSIM, this project also scripted Functions TTOWGbal to implement the MBE-based volumetric computations. While the volumetric computation workflow has already been incorporated into TTOWGSIM, TTOWGbal isolates this workflow for pedagogical reasons. The gridblock pressures matrix required in TTOWGbal could be obtained as an early output of TTOWGSIM. TTOWGbal has been deployed as a resource in teaching an undergraduate petroleum engineering module over the past 8 years.
